	
Install the Transifex client
----------------------------

Don't use  a separate Python install or pip, it's not needed, use the source build. 
Although technically you might want to install in virtualenv to avoid problems if the
OS Python is upgraded or changed, it's really much easier just to reinstall the
Transifex client in that case than create a whole other Python environment.

   git clone http://code.transifex.com/transifex-client
   cd transifex-client
   sudo python setup.py install

Afterwards, run 'tx --version' to confirm that it's available.


One-time setup
--------------

In the root of the SourceTree folder, execute 'tx init' and enter your user/password

Concepts
--------

TLDR: 
  * All XIBs in English.lproj will be processed
  * You should ONLY edit the English version of the xib
  * The Export strings to Transifex build target exports .strings from English XIBs & uploads
    them to Transifex for translation
  * The Import from Transifex build target pulls translated .strings from Transifex, then uses
    these plus the English XIB to generate 1 XIB per language.
  * So we still have 1 XIB per language in the project, but you only edit the English one now.
  * You can get crashes in other languages if you don't perform the 'Import' stage because the 
    translated XIB might be out of date compared to the English one. So make sure you do it every
    time you update a XIB. 

Full details:

There are 2 factors when translating interfaces: the actual strings, and the layout changes
required to accommodate those strings. Up until SourceTree for Mac 1.8 we supported OS X
10.6, in which the only way to localize a XIB file was to have multiple instances of it, 
because you had to be able to alter the size of controls based on the language.

From OS X 10.7, Auto Layout became available which allows UI components to adapt based on 
their contents, under defined constraints, which means once your XIBs are adapted to use it,
different strings can be plugged in and the XIB doesn't need changing to use them. However, 
on OS X 10.7 you still can't load .strings files at run time into the single XIB file; instead
you use ibtool to export the .strings file, then after localisation of this file you use ibtool
again to create a new XIB file from the original English version and the translated strings. 
Therefore your deployed app still has separate XIBs per language, but you only need to design
and maintain the English version.

From OS X 10.8 you can have one XIB file at runtime and the OS will load .strings files on the fly, 
but right now we only intend to drop 10.6 support, not 10.7 as well, so we won't be using this.

So the process as XIBs get adapted for Auto Layout is to export .strings files and upload these
to the Transifex project for translation. We've automated this process through a script
called translate.py in the translations folder.

Each XIB file will become a single resource in Transifex for translation purposes. The translate.py
script automates the process in both directions, using both the 'tx' tool to push/pull Transifex,
and 'ibtool' to convert between .strings and .xib files.

IMPORTANT: Right now there is only one set of resources in Transifex. You should never run the 
   export / import processes in any other branch than default right now; this is because strings
   may have been removed in one branch and exporting/importing could remove them from the 
   translation files of other branches, losing the translation. Only run the export / import
   processes in the default branch for now - this means translation updates will only be
   available in major versions. We may utilise Transifex's versioning feature in future
   to address this limitation.


Downloading updated translations
--------------------------------

Xcode needs no language map like Windows does since it uses the same country codes.

In Xcode, change the build scheme to "Import translations from Transifex" and hit Cmd-B to build.

This will automatically overwrite the local translated files with the latest strings from Transifex.
It then converts these strings files into translated XIBs in the correct location.

If there are no new languages, this is all you need to do and these strings will be included in the
next build. If there's one or more new languages, please see 'Adding new languages'. Note that it
will only download strings files which have been translated at least 60%. You can change this
percentage by adding a parameter --percent=N.

Because the 60% threshold is applied per resource (XIB), you should check after importing to see 
if there are new XIBs to add for each language. Right-click on each <lang>.lproj folder under
Resources/translations in the XCode project and Add Files To SourceTree - add any new files
(those not greyed out) for that language from translations/output/<lang>.lproj


Adding new languages
--------------------

If a new language has been downloaded (easy to spot, they will be a new folder in the folder
translations/output), you'll need to add these to the SourceTree build.

1. Open XCode and show the project tree (Cmd-0) and go to Resources > Translations. 
2. Add a new group called <lang>.lproj
3. Drag & drop the new xibs from translations/output/<lang>.lproj into the folder in XCode. Also drag/drop the Localiable.strings from here. 
4. Open STPreferencesWindowController.m and find the section which initialises languageNames and languageCodes
6. Add the new language's name and ISO code into these arrays AT THE SAME INDEX
7. Remember to add the new xibs and Localizable.strings to source control.
8. Test with the new language

Uploading changed source strings
--------------------------------
If you change strings in the existing files, you need to upload those so that new strings appear 
for translation. Note that this also REMOVES any strings you deleted, for all languages.

In Xcode, change the build scheme to "Export English strings to Transifex" and build.

IMPORTANT: You should never remove any strings which are currently in use by the stable version.

Adding a new XIB file
---------------------
If you add a brand-new XIB file to the configuration there's an extra step. Once you've defined
the English version, you want to upload the new base XIB using the "Export English strings to Transifex" build.

Transifex will automatically populate translations for 100% matched strings from other XIBs, but 
there's sometimes a slight delay. So after about 10 minutes, run "Import translations from Transifex"
to pull in any auto translations. 

After this, add the new translated XIBs to the project from from translations/output/<lang>.lproj

IMPORTANT: Again be very careful about removing strings when you have multiple branches of development.
In general you only ever want to export strings from a fully integrated branch which includes all the 
strings you'll need for the next version. Do not do this from the stable and development branch at
the same time as strings will appear / disappear.


